The Joe Rogan.
Experience. So let's talk about China. Um, yeah,
so I just mentioned that one, that story that just came out,
which is that they actually prevented PPE from being delivered outside of China
so that, you know, we are our companies 3m, they produce it.
There should have been exported out.
They prevented that there was a study that showed that if they had,
if they had actually been honest and given us, given the world three weeks,
extra notice, 95% of the spread could have been contained.
Okay. 5 million people left [inaudible]. Um,
they allowed travel out of Wu Han 5 million people, right
? Traveling all over China, all over the world. The reason this
, this became so bad in Italy and Iran is because of the belt and road initiative. These are major hotspots for China's economic development and
, um,
the belt and road initiative. So then let's get into the world health organization.
Uh, there has gotta be a come to Jesus moment on the world health organization.
Again, mid January world health organization says that it says that, uh,
or they repeat the claims made by China that, that, um,
that it can't even be transmitted human to human contact. Uh, on January 30th,
world health organization says something along the lines of,
there's no reason to be shutting down travel or limiting travel.
So they are directly controlled by the Chinese government and world health
organization. It should also be worth noting. I forget the guy's name,
who runs it, the director of the who, but, um, he's, um,
the latest from Ethiopia and Ethiopia is one of these countries that is a
huge, has a huge investments from the belt and road initiative.
And so, I mean, we need to be calling for a complete,
a complete change out in leadership of the WHL.
I mean, we've seen that video where they refuse to acknowledge,
he refuses to acknowledge the existence of Taiwan. He wouldn't even say it,
the one that keeps questioning him and he shuts his, his, his camera off.
Yeah.
It was like when you asked me about marijuana use and I pretended I couldn't
hear you.
You were joking though. We were right in front of each other, joking.
That's different. I mean, that guy, yeah. He shut his connection off.
And then he said, China's doing a great job. Let's move on. And you know,
like what very well.
So deeply corrupt as so deeply corrupt. And I mean,
you know, I don't,
I don't think that who will ever have the standing that it did before,
not without an immediate and serious leadership change, um,
because they've lost all credibility and then move on, you know,
fast forward the Chinese were perpetuating. It.
It's unclear whether they started this room, this,
this talking point or whether it was the progressive left and the Chinese just
repeated it and latched onto it.
But this whole notion that it's racist to call the virus, the Chinese virus was,
it was such an utterly absurd thing that we were focused on as a country when
that just doesn't matter. It just didn't no matter,
no matter what your opinion on whether it's actually racist or not. I mean,
I personally don't think it is. There's a G there's,
there's a history of calling a virus, some kind of geographic name,
but based on where it's from, that's fine. The point is,
is that Chinese authorities were tweeted.
We're spreading that quite a bit in February. Um,
so they're doing things like that.
Then they claim that perhaps it was the U S army that had started the virus.
And, um,
they haven't let international inspectors go in and investigate the,
the origins of this virus so that we can better understand it. They've, I mean,
it's there,
there's going to be there already is quite a few things that we're looking at is
what we can do to one rebalance our supply chains as a country.
We need a better industrial policy on bringing a lot of important manufacturing
back home and, and being more competitive in that sense. Um.
Can I ask you this? Is there any evidence that this was a man-made virus?
You know,
this is the big conspiracy theory that there was some sort of a level four bio
weapons lab and Wu Han.
Yeah. And I just don't know. I mean, I, I could pontificate.
But it is true that there was a bio weapons lab and anyone. Yeah.
I don't know. I don't know if it's meant for a weapons,
but there's certainly a lab there that, that would have housed, um,
viruses like this. And yeah, we just, we just don't know the answers. Um,
and I don't, you know, especially in my position, I don't want to, of course,
I don't want to, I don't want to assume.
This because of the consequences of this virus and all this,
that this awakens people to the need to manufacture things in
America, particularly particularly medical supplies.
So many things that we rely on China for.
100%. And, um, this is, this is something Trump has been talking about forever.
And I think both,
I think he's received skepticism from both the left and the right on that, um,
for different reasons, uh, mostly from the right, because, you know, we,
we, we have an,
a Republicans need to come to terms with this is we have really adhered very
closely to a more libertarian mindset of free trade, where,
where the more free trade, the better, um, where,
where somebody else can make it cheaper than,
than we should just have them make it all right.
This comparative advantage theory. And that's true in theory, it is true, but,
but we, we, we can't ignore it, the consequences. And I,
I think we have ignored those consequences for a little too long.
Like what happens when you, when you close down that factory? Yeah. Like your,
your, your t-shirts are 3 cents cheaper per unit,
which is a really big deal for the margins of your company. And yeah.
That company can hire more people and you get a cheaper t-shirt, but,
but we kind of miss those manufacturing jobs. Like there, if you're, there's,
there's also, um, there's like a moral or not a moral,
but like a psychological benefit to these manufacturing jobs as well.
You're creating something, people like that.
People like to feel like they're producing something and that they have
meaningful work that pays pretty decent. And, um,
so there's consequences and there's consequences to the efficiency that that has
occurred. And then there's national security consequences.
And we're learning about those right now.
And it's not just medical supplies that we need to take a look at. Uh,
I'm from Houston. So our oil and gas industry is, and isn't a big,
big dire straits right now. We risk,
we risk the possibility that we lose energy into
between Russia and Saudi Arabia. Now,
hopefully I think the administration has been able to use some diplomatic
pressure and figure that out to it to an extent, but there's,
we have to come to,
we have to decide whether we think there's value in doing things ourselves.
That's the ultimate question. And I would answer that yes, there is now,
do we take it to an extreme? No, but are we out of balance right now?
Maybe yes. And maybe we do need to look at, uh, changing our supply chains.
Maybe that means some things are just slightly more expensive.
Maybe that's what it means. Um, but th but for a lot of element,
for a lot of items,
we have to be looking at it that way to be thinking that way.
Well,
I th I think also when you look at what are the consequences of allowing us
to have things manufactured over there,
what kind of karma do we take on for when you look at Foxconn,
those buildings, where they manufacture iPhones,
they have nets around them to keep people from jumping off,
like how many people have to jump before you put nets up and like, what, what,
what has to happen there where you, your,
your life sucks so hard to make an iPhone? I mean,
how much would it cost to make those here? Is it worth it for us? And, you know,
is there some real value in that th th the label
that we used to love to look for made in America? That's,
that's not really discussed that much anymore,
but I think it would be wise for all of us to invest in that idea again.
Yeah. And the problem is, is like, we,
we hold ourselves to those standards of good labor conditions and good
environmental standards. And we,
but we punish ourselves almost out of business completely.
And so we punish ourselves out of business,
usually through these specific regulations, whether it's labor or environmental,
but then we also engage in free trade.
So it almost guarantees that we lose out our own manufacturing base,
or sometimes the energy sector, whatever it is, because we, we, we,
we simultaneously make ourselves less competitive while also forcing our
people to compete against people who are,
who work their employees so hard that they have to build nets around the office
as they throw themselves off of it. That's such a good question, by the way,
like how, how many, how many people actually jumped before they put the nets?
Yeah. That is just a crazy reality.
And it's also one that we just accept because we want an iPhone. And I mean,
apple is one of the most profitable countries. I mean, companies,
rather than the world's ever known, I mean,
this is a spectacularly profitable company. And like.
And there's, there's a whole of government policy and a whole of society.
I'm not going to say government it's really society that we all have to kind of
collectively look at this and it's going to take the private sector as well. Um,
because apple would tell you, okay, I love to do,
I'd love to open up a plant here and they do,
but they'd like to do more.
The reason they don't is because when they put out that job application,
nobody will show up or at least not enough people. And so,
and so what does that tell you?
It tells you that we w we're not educating people in the skills that are
necessary to engage in these jobs.
There's a lot of technical skills that we are not teaching because so this gets
to education policy. Why aren't we promoting more stem?
Why aren't we promoting via the, you know, the federal loan program,
student loans,
why aren't we promoting things and majors that actually get us to a
higher paying job? Why, you know, why,
why should the taxpayer be on the hook for a major that is guaranteed not to pay
anything once you graduate? Like,
what are you going to do with that degree and whatever, who knows? I,
you can name it. You know what I'm talking, but you can name a bunch, right?
And gender studies, whatever it's, these are not high paying things,
and they're not useful for the economy that we want.
And so what kind of incentives need to shift as my, as my point
to encourage more of that. So that apple,
when they do look at a place to build a new factory, they can be,
they can be confident that people will actually show up to work there.